[Music]
hey everyone welcome to the smart
economy podcast a production of neon.pdf
Solutions in this episode we talked
about the importance of data protection
and privacy more broadly and onchain how
Enterprise and large-scale entities view
the value of blockchain how midnight is
building itself to be a fourth
generation blockchain Network how the
team is creating tools to onboard
traditional and web to developers the
multi-asset model for midnight and much
more just a reminder nothing on this
podcast is a solicitation to buy or sell
any tokens and that the guest or host
might hold tokens discussed in any given
episode you can check out a full
disclaimer on
www.newsday.com also if you enjoyed this
episode please rate and review it on
your favorite podcasting platform and
share it with your friends and family
every rating review like and comment
really helps us get these episodes in
front of more people and bring you more
of your favorite guests and I'd also
like to add one more side note please
take a moment to check out Anthony's
podcast unshielded which is a show
dedicated to discussing Midnight's data
protection blockchain and how it will
Empower regulation friendly apps that
seek to safeguard sensitive information
you can find the show on any of your
favorite podcasting platforms with all
that said I really enjoyed speaking with
Anthony and I hope you enjoy the
conversation too today we're joining by
Anthony day the head of strategy and
marketing at midnight a blockchain
network focused on data privacy
Solutions how you doing today Anthony
I'm good Dylan thank you so much for
having me on the show saw that you
interviewed Iran previously and that
interview went really well so delighted
to to be on the show myself and maybe to
elaborate on some of the things you guys
didn't cover so uh let's get into it
yeah we were lucky to interview Iran at
permissionless where we did just a bunch
of even interviews on the ground but I
was actually really excited about that
because that interview opportunity
popped up before we had a chance to kind
of set a date and time to hop on the mic
so I think it'll be a nice little
precursor for a longer form discussion
um so kind of before we go into like who
you are and what your background is I
kind of want to jump into the deep end a
little bit and just talk about privacy
which is super important but a majority
of crypto and blockchain folks kind of
understand this internally or natively
this is the world we operate in but what
about getting the rest of society on
board how are we going to get people who
don't care about about protecting their
data or or about privacy in general how
are we going to kind of get them to
understand that this is something that's
important and that they should care
about that's a really good start and I
think this applies to all apps and the
internet broadly right so this is this
is a great way to start the conversation
what we typically talk about when we're
going into the kind of the understanding
and the depths of midnight and the
technology and and why midnight We've
Ended up in a version of the internet
today that is really not fit for purpose
that does not provide equit ility for
individuals for companies it's an
architecture that doesn't suit anybody
in terms of the way data is managed and
you can pick the pain points really
clearly so as an individual you probably
got any number of experiences of being
able to say I have sent my passport or
driver's license detail digitally over
the internet to a company that I barely
know or my credit card details now for
payments that's kind of understandable
and you know credit cards have insurance
but broadly speaking we send sensitive
information to third parties quite
readily over the internet and we don't
think twice about it and those third
parties for regulated reasons or not
typically then have to capture your data
store it govern it make sure that it's
not readily available on the internet
and becomes a honeybot for hackers and
that costs money and that's painful and
that's difficult and so the business
case for organizations and entities is
very clear saying we don't want to
govern more data than we have to for
Regulators it's clear saying actually
look if we can get away with reducing
the burden of data governance on third
parties but we can still do verification
that's better for the industry more
money can be spent on innovation inste
of compliance and admin and bureaucracy
this is not you know this is this is
this is the Enterprise regular
day-to-day internet view of the world
also in a whole bunch of different parts
of the world in different countries and
different jurisdictions people don't
enjoy the same freedoms of Association
Commerce and expression as some like to
call it you know the ability to share
information freely to have your voice
heard to be included in a commercial
system and those are bigger wider
problems that you know while defi
solving the inclusion of Finance
zero knowledge and projects like
midnight can solve those sorts of
inclusion problems at the same time not
to make it too lofty out of the out of
the gate but the fundamental thing is we
need to build a better internet that is
wired differently to do less with data
and to send proofs instead so are the
folks that you're chatting with that are
starting to understand this messaging
are they these thirdparty businesses and
what level of of business are we talking
about are we talking about small mom and
pop shops who might be using stripe or
are we talking about large ENT prise
entities a little bit of both something
in between the exciting thing is I think
everybody we've spoken to about the
importance of protecting data or
upholding people's privacy or lowering
the burden of compliance kind of gets it
like oh yeah yeah I do send my
information over the Internet fre far
too often or yeah we do spend millions
of dollars a year on keeping records we
do spend a whole bunch of time on
compliance that at the moment is
necessary but we just do it oh yeah we
did have a really massive hack the other
day or you know how many people people
are subject to Ticket Master Airline
AT&T dvla Etc type of breaches where
sensitive data leaks onto the internet
um and into the hands of third parties
everybody kind of gets it the issue is
they don't know what to do with it or
oftentimes they're not in a place where
they're saying well it's not my problem
to solve the where it kind of
centralizes or where it comes back to is
of the applications and the applications
that we use as individuals or the
applications that we use as companies
whether that's Salesforce sap whether
those are daps in web 3 whether we're
trading as a bank to bank or whether you
have joint venture agreements between
large oil and gas companies or whether
you're just an individual you know
Dillan buying some mem coins in each one
of those situations there's a relatable
story of building an app or architecting
an app in a different way and so the end
users who receed the pain Point get it
the interesting Nuance of this is that
as with much of web 3 the important
Catalyst for change in rewiring the
internet are application Builders and so
it's not just starting with an
individual large company who's on
boarding to web 3 and blockchain or you
know an individual dab that's going on
chain and wasn't on chain before it's
also the infrastructure providers the
SAS providers those people who provide
the underpinning technology or the
applications themselves individuals use
it's in those models where they can
provide a competitive Advantage as well
so actually the audience extends which
is exciting and again is has been a
fundamental challenge for for web 3 to
date anyway because blockchains of scale
the infrastructure is good it's not that
blockchain hasn't achieved its
capability or potential it's that the
applications on top of it have failed to
yet and we'll probably talk about this
before but I've had six seven eight
years experience of all the
organizations who said we're not going
on chain because we're not having our
data be in the public domain or we don't
want to see operational data of how my
company operates being made available to
anybody my competitors third parties
nefarious organizations and actors to do
something with that metadata is deeply
deeply important to us and we need to do
better there's a lot of things in what
you just said that we're going to
unravel um but before we kind of kick
off I just keep being reminded of this
kind of overall social commentary um I'm
old enough to remember when people
didn't have the internet natively in
their house and people weren't connected
everywhere they were in the world and
when it first became kind of possible to
at a wides scale purchase Goods off the
internet a lot of folks were just
terrified of sharing their credit card
information because they were they were
concerned that they were going to get it
stolen or that that somebody else was
going to purchase Goods using that
credit card information and now we've
reached a sort of level of apathy as a
society where when I have my data stolen
from a credit agency or a massive
conglomerate retail store that I shop at
it's just commonplace and we don't even
care anymore it's it's just it's kind of
uh like a a tragedy or or a comedy or a
tragic comedy that we've come this far
in just a generation where we've stopped
caring about maintaining our own data
and our own privacy um because it's just
become so commonplace to have this
information leaked and shared I would I
would agree we've we've normalized some
of it and and that's because the pain
isn't felt so greatly the financial
system credit card companies especially
they have insurance you can you know
have that money credited back there are
there is a service organization behind
Visa Master Card or whoever you bank
with that if something goes wrong on the
internet you're covered and so that's
the safety blanket with web 3 there's
not the same safety blanket and so
everybody who's transacting on daps or
anybody who has their first and second
name as their address is risk accepting
that everything they do that's available
and visible on web 3 is is public
knowledge and some people believe that
you know through sumity that's that's
that's their way out you give me nanson
for a couple of hours and a a super user
I'll tell you exactly how much I can
learn about you as an individual based
on your onchain transactions you they
are publicly listing their bank balance
transaction history and you know in
interaction with daps probably their
browser history in web 3 with a metadata
trail that that anybody can actually go
and make use of and so I said there are
some Deens in the web3 community there
are some people who are saying you know
I I accept that that's okay you know
I've been through hacks and scams worst
things have happened but that's not the
way we get to mass adoption we've got to
break out of the 100,000 angry degens
who are risk accepting a more dangerous
way of transacting on Shain and actually
protecting everybody so everybody gets
to play love it okay so this was a
phenomenal kind of jump into the
conversation I do want to take two steps
back because you you do bring a really
cool plethora of experience across
Enterprise and um just open source
software so maybe we could start with
May what was the when was the first time
you heard about cryptocurrency and did
it click right away or did it take a
little bit of time for you to have your
aha moment so I didn't have the
traditional you know 2013 I just read
the Bitcoin white paper and I fell in
love moment many do and those people who
were there that early I wish I was there
that early um I've been working in
digital transformation for most of my
career what that means is driving change
in the world through technology and so I
was implementing core banking Systems
payment systems looking at how can you
change customer experiences through apps
and wallets all the fun of the fair
working for large systems integrators
like deoe uh and then ler the IBM and
getting a curiosity for how the world
works and in all of those settings you
get you know a very unique and very
detailed a granular example of why my
banking app hasn't been updated for four
years or why technology slows down
progress or why Innovation doesn't move
at the pace you'd like it to because a
lot of these institutions large
bureaucracies have an organizational
immune system to Innovation and I've
always loved and enjoyed Innovation I've
always seen that that I I want to drive
positive change it's exciting it's
interesting I don't want to do the same
thing every day for my day job I want to
make things better and so gradually
getting closer to Innovative technology
um through um the amplification of
everything into the open Banking and
psd2 era which had a really significant
impact regulatory Le Innovation imagine
that in the banking industry in in the
mid 2000s I know powerful we haven't had
much of it since but genuinely that was
that was a really important moment I
think people underrated moment of the
last 30 years of History um and then
kind of moving into what what is the
potential of cloud what is the potential
of e-commerce what is the potential of
you know targeted applications payments
Innovation interoperability and
gradually through those Innovations you
get to the point saying okay well what's
the next Horizon and it was Cloud
blockchain Ai and so around 2015 2016
deot who I was working for at the time
built up a presence in that particular
area I wasn't close to it in 2015 2016 I
became much closer to it as I was I was
offered a COO role in that team and they
were starting to look at you know what
are the use cases for for blockchain
ethereum was just about on the scene and
the digital transformation guy in me
said I I don't see this I don't I don't
see the value at this point in time
because I can digitize transactions
today I can digitize assets I can put
them in the cloud today and it took me a
little while to understand actually the
power of decentralization the power of
Unstoppable apps The Innovation
potential when you tokenize assets and
when you make those systems 24/7 and
available to all and composable that was
a rewiring of the way I thought about
how technology got built my initial I
was working Innovation right and my
organizational immune system says that
that won't work no one's going to do
that but actually through exposure to
the technology and then actually getting
to work in the team at Deo itself I was
like this is massive this is really
powerful let's go let's go take this to
everybody they're going to get really
excited and you know I spent three or
four years at deoe speaking to some of
the largest organizations in the world
and some of the most Innovative startups
we we worked at both ends of the
spectrum from Canada to Australia from
um ethereum to hyperledger fabric Quorum
EOS at some point as well and
and 80% of the time guys are like this
sounds really exciting but we're not
putting out into any data on chain we
want to go and do one of those private
Network things we're going to go test it
out blockchain training wheels is is how
we came to call it which was we like the
idea of distributed systems but we're
not ready to be on chain and the sad
fact of life is that that hasn't really
changed that much defy and ETFs and
crypto I think have led the way because
it's easy it's the lowest hanging fruit
speculative assets was one of the
earliest use cases of of web 3 because
the assets are already digital because
it has attracted interest in so far as
numbers go up you know cryptocurrencies
have been analogous to high growth tech
stocks to some extent and the financial
aspect of it has drawn in people because
Finance is understandable to many and
because tokenization is something that
okay I I can see it I have a wallet it's
easy it's not it's not it's not it's not
a complicated transformation and so
that's got us to where we are and we've
we've definitely proven with Bitcoin and
you know something like $2.5 trillion
worth of market cap across different
blockchain um market caps at this point
in time that web 3 is not going anywhere
that we are now in a place where there
are enough people invested in inverted
commas and literally in the success of
this technology then it's not a bubble
anymore but there are a number of
domains of potential for web 3 and
blockchain technology that are so
glaringly obvious that have been obvious
since 2016 2017 but that we have yet to
realize the potential through
decentralized applications that I'm
excited that we are now able to unlock
so I do want to jump in really quickly
and just kind of hear from your your
past experience what sort of information
were these Enterprises and these large
scale entities you were chatting with
that they saw as value for being on an
open- Source distributed Ledger but they
didn't want others knowing and for
example let's say um I'm in I'm selling
oranges and my competitor is also
onchain selling oranges I don't want to
put a bid for how much I'm buying
oranges for because then they can just
just under Market their purchases and
make a little bit more money off me and
that's kind of an issue because this is
an open source blockchain that everybody
can scour through through a blockchain
Explorer so there's an understandable
reason why competitive businesses
wouldn't want to have price data and
purchase data on chain that's
understandable but what were some of the
things that they were saying if there is
some privacy if I could say I bought X
oranges for y price that it wasn't
stating any specific specifics um what
are some examples of these instances
where they were like if we had that data
privacy then we would go onchain and on
to an open distributed Ledger yeah it's
it's it doesn't just stop at Price data
either it's it's operational data so
typically the the use cases or the areas
where web 3 can have the most profound
impact is the kind of cross-section of
trust and transactions I'm not the first
person to say this but anywhere where
you need to verify or where there is a
lack of trust in third parties from from
joint venture accounting right being
able to have um multiple parties in an
oil and gas supply chain who are
co-investing in a production asset at
the moment somebody manages that or
that's in some sort of triple entry
bookkeeping type of situation having a
single source of the truth that is
transparent and tamper proof massively
important because there's millions of
dollars at stake compliance and the
ability to prove that you have done
certain things without exposing
intellectual property another one um in
my IBM days we built a platform called
exceed for Reno the problem they had is
they had a first second and third tier
supply chain where they were required to
demonstrate safety compliance or
materials compliance but those third
parties who were part of subassemblies
didn't want to share their intellectual
property or their material spec
specifications with an O because if that
OEM had the specification they can then
ship it to whoever had um better
economies of scale and then they lose
their they lose their Edge they lose
their business there was no trust in
that model but there was a requirement
for compliance um if you look at
settlement reconciliation you know a lot
of the Telco use cases have come around
having a single source of the truth for
Carrier billing and then being able to
settle or net either when you choose to
or periodically or whenever is most
financially viable to all parties in the
system that changes your settlement
strategy and structure crossborder
activities again where you know you
don't want a single you don't want a
single person to be accounting but you
do want to have trust in the system
another good place digital identity so
many references made to people owning or
managing their own credentials Co saw a
an explosion of the issue or the
challenge with governments holding
credentials and people having those on
databases and being revoked taken away
that weren't in the control of
individuals um and that those
credentials needed to be accepted
globally where it's local where it's
National you've got less of a use case
right having putting um driver's license
details on a blockchain just for the
State of California makes some sense but
not as much sense as if it was a
universal system the government of
Georgia has just put its passport system
onto onto a a blockchain based system
whether that system is then going to be
unv Al accepted by other countries and
by other nations time will tell right
because there's already proprietary
systems in place where physical device
is needed you've got to transform that
whole physical system for the digital
asset to become accepted and that's part
of the problem with a lot of these
things is the more physical the supply
chain uh or the more physical the assets
are if I tokenize a Lamborghini that's
great I can fractionalize that nft I can
go and sell that to a whole bunch of
people and all a sudden people have
shares in a Lamborghini but where is the
lambo how do I make sure that you know
it is actually still a Lambo what if
somebody wants to drive it what if it
rusts what you know what's the insurance
that sits behind it how do I make sure
it's still there who's who's you know so
suddenly you have to have a Bonded
Warehouse with this Lamborghini and up
to a certain point you're really not
driving significant changes in the
supply chain so there are good cases and
bad cases but hopefully that's kind of a
good schmorgus board of there are more I
could go on I could go on for forever um
but in in a lot of these cases the
challenge was okay but we'll we'll do it
with a private Network because at the
moment ethereum is either to expensive
too slow too challenged or too public or
a combination of all the above and and
we like the idea of distributed Ledger
we like the idea of decentralization we
like the idea of having technology that
can't be evil where it's open source
auditable and everybody knows how the
protocol and the smart contract is going
to work but we just can't deal with
onchain right now so for using kind of
Market cycles and narratives to describe
the time that you were in the quote
unquote Enterprise space then we would
say kind of the Ico boom and bust
through defi summer and kind of like the
nft craze and then in 2022 you kind of
left the Enterprise space and you
shifted into parody Technologies um I
think one of the things that kind of
stuck out is that you were looking at
web3 gaming so what was what was the the
impetus then to kind of leave this
umbrella of
Enterprise uh Innovation and kind of
jump over to the open source side and
maybe what were you kind of particularly
excited about with the web 3 gaming
space if that was the the kind of draw
that brought you over to to the the
polka dot ecosystem got you so so I
guess I left systems integrators I don't
know if I've ever properly left the idea
of Enterprises being an important part
of the scaling of web 3 because I think
they are that's not to say also that I
don't see a huge amount of potential in
Grassroots growth in web3 from web3
native organizations web 3 funded
organizations um I think it's both but
when we talk about Mass adoption mass is
mass and the the rest of the world that
isn't web 3 today is much bigger than
what web 3 is today and so I'm not here
for Enterprise prise blockchain I'm
probably not even here for blockchain
I'm here for transformation and doing
that with the best technologies that
deliver the best outcomes for Humanity
that sounds a bit lofty But ultimately
that's what this is and so back to White
why did I start getting closer to
protocols I think around the time I left
IBM IBM postco had fallen out of love
with blockchain and fall in love with AI
I think they were struggling to make the
um private Network version of blockchain
scale it was expensive it was hard to
manage the economics of running IBM
style blockchain networks was really
really challenging and IBM didn't have a
technology option at that time to move
into public chain or didn't have an
interest or a desire to do so they
wanted to try and create SAS products
for blockchain and I I genuinely believe
that's still a huge opportunity for the
world is reducing the integ ation
complexity through low code no code
Solutions plugins to establish software
platforms like power Enterprises and
organizations and governments worldwide
the sales forces the saps of the world
being able to provide nft modules into
those providers being able to provide um
programmable data protection into
procurement systems as mundane as that
sounds that's Mass adoption that's when
we actually get scale that's when we get
billions of transactions and billions of
dollars online
less so meme coins although I love meme
coins and they've proven an important
Paradigm in web 3 and we can probably
cover that later if we choose to but
around that time 2021 2022 layer 1
protocols were professionalizing shall
we say they'd gone from being run by um
Cipher Punk Independents genius
technologists and Libertarians and they
were realizing actually these are
billion dollar businesses these are
unicorn organizations that have to start
acting a little bit less like Scrappy
startups because actually the ecosystems
depend on them because you have hundreds
of customers in inverted commers not
those who are who have bought the token
although you know that's part of it but
those who were building on your network
those people who were providing features
uh or poll requests or requesting
updates to the protocol those are your
stakeholders as well and it's you can't
do that with Five Guys in their pants
living in a rented Airbnb and in a Bea
you can't and so that was a time at
which I think we saw the biggest shift
in layer ones as they were starting to
use use their treasury starting to use
their organization structures to still
be distributed still be remote still
keep a lot of the principles of web 3
but start to professionalize and start
to think more about the customer journey
start to think more about the ecosystem
start to think more about Integrations
Partnerships and that was the time where
people with my experience and passion
for the technology mixed with my
professional experience was a good fit
and so I definitely wasn't as web3 as
much of the web3 community at that time
but I was getting there and so that gave
the opportunity to get closer to
protocols get closer to the real
Innovation and and effect change a
little bit differently and and that's
super exciting I'd be remissed if I
didn't give a fellow podcast host an
opportunity to talk about his podcasts
um so I I believe you're operating too
right now blockchain won't save the
world and and right click save the world
um maybe we can use this as an
opportunity to kind of a have you share
a little bit about the the podcast that
you host and kind of what the the goal
and vision is for them but B
I'm also really curious to hear how
chatting with folks from outside your
day-to-day purview and outside the
ecosystem in which you work how chatting
with these folks might help expose areas
that you're not necessarily thinking of
and how that might also kind of help the
day-to-day work that you do 100% you
forgot the third show and maybe the most
important one now which is unshielded
midnight has its own podcast I I can't
believe I've slipped through the Dyan
research the legendary Dylan research
net because I know you Go De are you you
research better than most do and so um I
take no pride in pointing out that there
is a third show and and and I will give
a shout out to unshielded because it is
um much higher production quality and I
think much more interesting than my
other show in terms of it relates much
more closely to my day job we get to
specifically demonstrate content
applications technology in a way that I
can't do on on LinkedIn lives or on
blockchain won't save the world because
I don't think the world needs another
talk show no disrespect to this talk
show that we're currently on but I I I
feel like there is a visual learning
that can go alongside the Talking part
of the podcast which is okay I'm going
to listen to people's opinions and learn
something about how they think but I'm
also going to look at here's the thing
here's how the code Works here's an
application here's the flow for the
wallet here's here's a road map or
here's a particular whiteboard that
outlines use cases I think that's a
missed opportunity and and now you start
seeing other podcasts going to video on
Spotify and I'm sure others will go
YouTube now is where the Google go
podcast a video as much as audio and so
unshielded for me gives the audience
that's interested in data protection in
building web 3 applications in actually
scaling blockchains they can go and
actually see things working and so
that's that's the shout out to
unshielded and that's why I love
unshielded blockchain won't save the
world and and I will give a shout out
also to right click was a show I do with
Diego Borgo it's that one's more of a
community and culture Focus show that's
really he's one one of my best friends
in web 3 he lives 20 minutes up the road
from me at s
and we get to say the things that we
would like to about why we care about
web Tre and and what's interesting and
fun about the community and culture
rather than having to be too educational
season two of that coming soon but with
blockchain w't save the world the show
is intended it was a spin out of what I
was doing on LinkedIn anyway regrettably
you won't find me on Twitter because I'm
a minimalist and I feel like I can only
properly dedicate myself to one social
media platform at a time I'm struggling
with that honestly but LinkedIn is where
I post my content where people who need
to find me can find me and around the
same time that I started working in
blockchain and deoy I felt a desperate
pressure that I needed to help people
understand what I had realized about
blockchain for two reasons one I was
interested about it and secondly it
helped me do my job actually if you can
point people towards a Blog a white
paper an an infographic a piece of
content a video that will help people
suddenly get it faster that's our role
as Educators or our our role as people
who are trying to drive technology
change is if I don't have to spend the
first 10 minutes explaining what
blockchain is and you already meet me
there then we can start getting into the
talk about what can we do with it or
what can we do next and that becomes
much much more powerful as as as an
engagement method and so that started
with okay I'm just going to post every
day something about blockchain an
article a report an infographic
something that can help people
understand it's like okay well there are
other mediums to do this I'm going to
try and do something longer form and I
want people who have built protocols to
explain to other people in longer form
how do they work what is what is the
basics of blockchain architecture some
of the First shows I did with Chris
Bennett blockchain beard guy um one of
the oldest out here to start just doing
basic human addressable simple to
understand architectural content
blockchain has a marketing problem
always has it has always been explained
by incredibly smart people to not so
smart people how it works not what it
does and this is the challenge that that
I've been trying to address with my
content whether it's LinkedIn or or
podcast is help people understand in
relatable ways and so those 1our moments
that I have and and the schedle like
business meetings now the beautiful
thing about techn is I have a 1hour
window once a week where I try and reach
out to somebody in the industry that I
that I'm inspired by or that I would
love to have a conversation with I put
it under the guise of a podcast and I go
out on on the internet and I'm learning
at this point I'm just like look I know
other people are interested in this but
this is for me um and so you know if I'm
interested in what the people have to
say or if I can ask questions that I
find interesting and inspiring to me
then hopefully other people will do so
as well and that's the that's the ethos
behind the show it's always about people
who have done it not who are going to do
it not about what blockchain can do but
what it is doing today um and so that's
how we got to that place and I know 100
or so episodes later that's I still have
a desire because there's still people I
want to meet and still want to talk to
including yourself I love that response
um I actually and every day I kind of
pinch myself at How Lucky I Am to be
able to chat with so many intelligent
people building so many cool projects
across the space under the guys of the
smart economy podcast so that that kind
of sentiment definitely resonates with
me I kind of want to finish up this this
this segment of using of learning your
experience and kind of how it Paints the
picture for the work that you're doing
and kind of zoom out before we zoom into
midnight and I just want to ask you you
know with someone who has a a story
tenure across very different verticals
within the web 3 and blockchain space
kind of like a philosophical or maybe
just like a a question about how you've
seen this space play out so in the 9ish
years you've been working here what have
you seen play out exactly as you
expected and what is something that's
missing today that you thought would be
here when you first started working in
blockchain back in 201617 I guess the
thing I never expected was you know
sitting in
2015 16 looking at you know $500 Bitcoin
or $1,000 eth wherever we were thinking
that's a lot of money like that's that's
really expensive um and being like I I
don't know I don't know who's going to
buy into that I'm not I'm not sure about
that I don't know if this slightly
obscure slightly alternative technology
that we're really excited about is
really going to capture the imagination
and and so the crypto side of blockchain
100% caught the imagination in a way
that I think nobody thought it would and
so that's that's an obvious answer for
me what I I don't understand I'm
disappointed but what I thought would
progress faster is that in 2024 we still
have layer one protocols who were
talking you know we're fast cheap and
green we're not blockchain sorry we're
not Bitcoin um we don't use proof of
work we're not expensive in terms of you
know gas fees and and energy expansion I
I want to believe we should have gone
further than this and I think a big part
of the challenge is there's still an
aversion for those people wanting to use
those chains to go on chain we're seeing
Partnerships announced we're seeing
people building games daps whatever it
might be that that has useful
functionality and know decentralized
Finance I think is is a strong success
story around being able to find retail
investors professional inv s
institutional investors looking at
alternative sources of generating yield
and saying this makes sense these
digital assets are volatile there's
trading potential this is this is this
that's the kind of the the Bitcoin and
crypto side of web 3 and again that's
that's a proof point in rewiring the
financial services industry whether you
like it or not defi has put a dent not a
big dent but still a dent and
demonstrated a an alternative business
model for traditional finance and that's
hugely powerful with wider adoption of
decentralized applications I would have
liked to have seen us make more progress
in the developer stack in terms of being
able to make tokenization easier for
people to do I don't say nfts nfts is is
is a is a is a brand but the
tokenization of assets or the ability to
spin up nodes we had cido since
20178 I think we could spin up ethereum
nodes and create um this is one of my my
first wow moments of blockchain SAS was
cido is there and at at consensus New
York and saying with three clicks you
can create a Consortium Network on
ethereum is like well that's de
then excuse my language you might be
able to bleed that out later but you
know that systems integrator is done
that's that's like half of our revenues
right now is just configuring nodes so
so thanks SAS that's that's really
annoying I'm going to have to go and
reforecast 20 2018 or 2019 now but we
kind of haven't quite got the rest of
the way we've started to see some
protocols in you know big SAS software
providers like Unity um or integration
with Unreal Engine which I think is
super powerful for gaming but it's still
it's still not as prolific as I would
like and I think again the application
Suites for building daps that can be
more widely adopted again I feel like
we're a little bit lagging behind there
if we want the mainstream to use our
technology we've got to make it easy for
the mainstream to use our technology and
that's wallet ux is not really all of
that we we doing a better job at obis
cating some of the wallet ux obis cating
some of the transaction fees um
non-custodial wallets has helped a
little bit gast's transactions is
helping a little bit um what the guys at
Aptos andu are doing with ZK email and
ZK login um shout out to those guys
brilliant cryptographers who spun out of
Libra and DM and and Facebook these guys
understand ux so they've built
blockchains based off the foundation of
saying look we need better Primitives
for building better ads so more power to
them I think they have pushed things on
a little bit maybe a lot but that's the
thing I wish with 8 years of trying to
embed into SAS platforms we had done a
better job of so far mhm I think
something that has been apparent this
year particularly for the class of
people working in blockchain who maybe
quit their previous careers in 2016 17
18 uh I'm one of them I was a former
urban planner working for governments
who completely pulled a rip cord on my
previous career and went full-time into
blockchain this year we're starting to
see this kind of proliferation of quiet
quitting from people who might just be
disenfranchised IED or they might just
be completely jaded now that the
promises that blockchain and crypto were
going to offer in 2017 haven't really
materialized yet and I I I get it I
understand you know you've been grinding
for seven years and maybe things haven't
played out as you have seen um but then
there's also like a Flip Flip Side to
that coin like some of us are just still
here and still grinding so as we kind of
like zoom in to the work that you're
doing at midnight how did this decision
to leave parody and kind of my to input
output and work in the ioh kind of
ecosystem environment how did you know
that last year that this was still the
space you wanted to be and you still
wanted to be at the protocol level uh
what was it that kind of like drove you
to this ecosystem and to kind of just
still remain building in in web 3 great
question why I'm still here is there
still work to do there are still people
who are having the Bitcoin versus
blockchain conversation as we talked
about in some of the other questions
there still are huge amount of enabling
digital transformation through
blockchain that we have not made easy
for the world yet and there are still
Primitives like data protection and
onchain privacy that we have not enabled
on mass and you know to to segue into
why midnight it was a very short
conversation um it started with Iran
Barak who's the CEO of the midnight
tribe in ihk and in that conversation it
was I want to tell you about a project
um this fixes a whole bunch of the
things that we were struggling with in
the rest of web 3 and I think it's going
to have some very powerful outcomes for
adoption of web 3 and decentralized
applications I was like okay I'm
listening and and then you know we then
start talking about the technology
underpinning it the research
underpinning it the team that's already
working there and then we get to Charles
hoskinson and iohk and cardano and
ethereum and suddenly you start looking
at there's a very large number of
factors here that add up to this being
what could have huge potential as
project and it was a mix of Common Sense
and purpose I think together that said
midnight is the right project to be
supporting right now because um it's
needed and what experience I have is
needed by the team that's there and so
that was a really important moment then
having what was scheduled as an hour
that was eventually about an hour and a
half maybe two hours with Charles
hoskinson and Tamara Hassen um sort of
founder and president of iohk it's like
we all agree on the Avenues for this we
all agree on the potential for this we
should really work together on this it's
like okay that's good that's positive I
like I like the boss um I had met
Charles in 2017 in Malta back in the day
he was in a very earlier stage in his
career and he was impressive back then
he's even more impressive now and having
had a previous opportunity to work with
another ethereum founder Gavin wood to
go from working with Gavin to then
working with Charles it's like not that
I'm kind of trying to poke them on this
and trying to collect them all but you
know I'm I'm sorry but I I will never
collect that rare Joe Luben card I think
that one's off that one's off the table
for me um and I think other Founders
from ethereum that are kind of exiting
the scene stage left and going for a
peaceful life um but broadly speaking
that's um that's how I got there it was
the right project the right time and
very understandably midnight solves a
problem for not just as a blockchain
individually but for other blockchains
that I have been feeling as a paino in
scaling and Adoption of this technology
since 2016 as like right I get it I have
a personal connection to this project I
have a personal understanding and
experience of also having been through
the covid um 2 and a half year
experience looking at governments and
digital credentials at IBM we were
trying to build a digital credentials
platform to help provide data protecting
privacy preserving web 3 verifiable
credentials for governments and then you
see governments actually trying to
Hoover up a whole bunch of personal
sensitive Health Data into a centralized
database and expose it to the internet
and you think I'm not sure if that's the
way and and even in that moment that was
the architectural choices that
governments were making on behalf of
citizens and you think we've still got a
lot of work to do and so put all that in
the hopper all of that kind of working
away in the background over the course
of a 5minute conversation with Iran who
is very convincing by the way um it was
a done deal um so I think something that
I want to address and maybe just kind of
like get a better understanding of is it
seems like a lot of the midnight team
was brought in to midnight from outside
the cardano ecosystem but there's still
this like deep tie to cardano because
Midnight's incubated by iohk uh it's
kind of like uh the seed for the
brainchild was planted by Charles but
it's also kind of an independent uh
blockchain Network that will be
interoperable and be able to communicate
with all sorts of chains not just
cardano so what's other than the very
surface level description of what I just
gave what's the relationship with
midnight to cardano and how are there
still going to be ties to that ecosystem
and conversely how is midnight also
going to be able to kind of like fly
free and be able to communicate with
other networks and ecosystems as well
got you sorry if you're going to build a
blockchain in 2023 you would be foolish
if you didn't build it based on the
experience technologically and
operationally of other chains and so
what has been kind of coales around
midnight is some of the best technology
some of the best Primitives some of the
best thinking in addition to Cutting
Edge research around zero knowledge that
gives us what Charles calls a fourth
generation blockchain first generation
Bitcoin second generation programmable
ethereum third generation
interoperability cardano polka dot uh
Cosmos Etc fourth generation data
protection identity um Native privacy on
at at the protocol level if you're going
to build that better not build it from
scratch because we've already had 10 15
years of experience of building
protocols and scaling them and so if you
look under the hood of of midnight
you'll see substrate right which is the
the block the blockchain um framework
underneath polka dot you'll see extended
utxo which is yeah the inspiration from
Bitcoin and also cardano you'll then
obviously see the cardano connection
because um being incubated by iohk being
built you know and under the under the
watchful eye of Charles hoskinson and
others um and along with a research team
from University of Edinburgh and a
number of other genius cryptographers
along the way you start picking out the
best bits that said well we don't need
to rebuild everything there's some very
very good pieces of Technology there at
the same time if you're going to
construct a team that's going to take a
blockchain to Market you want to make
sure you've got a mix of technical
commercial ecosystem operational
delivery talent to be able to do that
you don't pick that from one ecosystem
or it would be Dar to pick it for money
system you end up picking the best
people for the job or the best available
people for the job at least and and so
we've been very lucky to bring a number
of people from outside of blockchain
from inside of blockchain who have
experience in different ecosystems and
the long-term story for midnight is
we'll launch as a partner chain of
cardano that's that's where our roots
are it makes sense to start with a
single chain because you don't want to
try and be interoperable out of the box
with a whole bunch of different chains
as you're growing that's very
technically complicated um cardano has
an incredible history of security
decentralization 2,000 plus days worth
of up time and with that a whole bunch
of experience also in terms of the
journey they're going through now in
terms of digital governance with Vol
there's a huge amount of competence and
capability in the cardano ecosystem
there is also a huge amount of
competence and capability in other
ecosystems and as I said before the
intent here is to enable the widespread
adoption of all of web 3 and so while
mid is a layer one in its own right it
has its own um consensus has its own
block production we will bootstrap from
cardano as we grow we will have you know
the capability to operate as an
independent chain we also have the
intent to operate as a layer 2 Chain to
multiple others and so for those chains
out there who do not have data
protection as a core part of their
existing protocol any layer one that
doesn't have that and is struggling to
scale today we want to work with them
because we believe this is critical
technology that then helps scale their
ecosystems their apps it's you know
again you'd be daed out in 2023 2024
saying no no we've got a better
blockchain we're going to take all of
the users all the builders and all
liquidity and we're going to pull it
over here as everybody else has been
doing over the last five or six years
that's not how you scale what how you
scale is you deliver technology that's
valuable you work on interoperability
you work on Integrations you work with
other ecosystems in providing
functionality and Primitives that allow
them to thrive and in doing so you bring
the whole of web 3 together you know
there are other technology capabilities
on the road map um like multi-resource
consensus that's super powerful that's
that's going to have a really sort of
potent effect on bringing other
ecosystems together um in terms of block
production in terms of validators and
and the road map goes on there's a whole
bunch of other really exciting
technology that's going to be made
available to midnight that will help to
coales and and and enhance that story
but that's the main thing right so we
start as a part chain of cardano we're a
layer one in our own right but the
intent is to enable the widespread
adoption of web three and Empower daps
or hybrid daps on other ecosystems so
you can keep the smart contract you can
keep the logic you can keep the unique
functionalities of whichever chain your
application started on compose some of
Midnight's um capability as part of the
application logic whether it's kyc
whether it's um data protecting
transactions whichever part of your
business logic you want to have shielded
or need shielding for and then make
available through selective disclosure
for Regulatory Compliance reasons rather
than just having a straight privacy
chain that you can't do in regulated
Industries and so that's super important
those hybrid daps will mean that people
who are already building other
ecosystems who are familiar with those
ecosystems don't have to leave the
liquidity doesn't have to move the
projects don't have to move you don't
end up with this battle for interest and
attention and Technology you don't have
the retooling cost you just have the the
re architecting of different components
of your application logic and with
midnight we try to make that as easy as
possible so smart contracts are the
compact which is Midnight's domain
specific language is based on typescript
so the tens of millions of developers
who are familiar with typescript script
and JavaScript can write midnight smart
contracts incredibly easily you still
have to learn the domain of of zero
knowledge circuits to some extent so
it's a slightly different programming
approach compared to linear applications
but if you're already in web 3 it
shouldn't be a large stretch that's a
big part of the story too so you've got
a familiar programming language you've
got an intent to support and lift up
other ecosystems that's much better in
2024 than being adversarial and that's
why one of the other reasons why we
think midnight is going to be an
important contributor to the success of
the decentralized internet mhm you
mentioned that compact is is based on
typescript and um it for a lot of folks
who want to learn how to build in web 3
they have to kind of like go to evm land
and learn solidity and so I'm just
curious to hear uh a little bit more
about Midnight's perspective on why
meeting web 2 developers where they're
at which is a programming language they
can understand uh why you guys kind of
double down on using um compact
maybe even leveraging some of the
experiences that were learned from uh
the friction at having to learn hll in
cardano offered and then uh secondarily
why typescript why not like goang or or
Java or C or any other programming
language got you Mass adoption is is is
you need the masses for Mass adoption
you need the masses and so looking at
what is a programming language that is
compatible with building smart contracts
that is widely adopted that has the
lowest barriers to entry it's a really
obvious start as I said at the beginning
of the conversation developer experience
and making this technology easy to embed
with existing application Stacks with
developers who are building and
programming for the industries and the
applications and experiences that people
are using today that could benefit from
being on chain or that can benefit from
tokenization that's where we have to
meet people so we have to make it as
easy for infrastructure providers SAS
companies not just the web3 community to
be able to adopt our technology to be
able to consume apis to be able to um
embed midnight code into existing
workflows and and templates when we do
those things we make the technology easy
to adopt when we have the Integrations
underneath between different chains and
the concept of hybrid deps working well
and with established patterns then we
know that we can start composing other
blockchains underneath us and that
modular web 3 stack that a small number
but still a significant number of people
have been talking about that's when we
get real interoperability
and we're seeing you know the era of
bridges in the last couple of years the
era of layer 2s have done some of that
but not all of it and we're starting to
realize that being able to have
interoperability at the app level not
necessarily at the protocol level is
still enough and and we're getting there
so here I think it it this question will
will that your answer will be different
for different places that people live in
I only ask this um because I'm living in
currently the US where there's a lot of
regulatory ambiguity and there could be
very positive or there could be very
negative outcomes for Builders here in
the states in the coming years
governments don't like privacy um a
Trope that I've been hearing a lot
recently over the past couple years is
that if today in the US you tried to
create a currency just like the US
dollar it probably wouldn't happen
because the dollar bill is completely
private it's untraceable the physical
dollar and that is just Persona nrata
here in like according to how our
legislators want to operate so having
this kind of like perspective in mind
and and and granted again different
jurisdictions around the world are going
to have different responses are there
any tight ropes that you at midnight
have to kind of walk in terms of
different Regulators or legislators when
building these privacy oriented
Technologies does this kind of play into
the decisions you guys make at a
foundational level is this kind of like
we'll let the apps decide because
they're the front-facing entities or is
this something that isn't even on the
radar right now when you guys are
thinking about the tools that you build
and how to onboard developers we are
building explicitly for regulation and
for regulated Industries and for
compliance regulation is a necessary
part of the way that businesses
Industries governments run today and if
you if you avoid that of you try to run
away from that fact you're never going
to scale right I am personally I'm very
much for proactive clear objective
supportive regulation I gave the example
of PSD to there have been some very
arduous very bureaucratic banking
regulations that have come since but
that was one that actually drove
Innovation that materially changed the
user experience and the features and
functionality that people with bank
accounts had in the European Union and
further a field regulation can have
benefits at the same time there are any
number of other regulated Industries
take your pick um the automotive
industry is regulated Healthcare is
regulated data is regulated you you
don't have to go far to find some degree
of compliance requirements as an
organization so if we are going to have
applications that are on chain we are
going to have to manage with compliance
and a core tenant of why midnight was
created was to enable onchain
applications to to manage Regulatory
Compliance that's different in every
industry and so being able to bake in
the capability for app developers to
manage um shielding when necessary but
self um selective disclosure where
regulatory required that's a core part
of what midnight can offer and so as you
said it differs by industry and so the
application developers are responsible
for customizing the logic and which
parts of the transactions or which part
of the workflows are shielded unshielded
encrypted where will we use selective
disclosure under which particular
conditions how do you build that into
the flows or the applications themselves
that differs everywhere and the nice
thing about having a protocol is it's
customizable right midnight has
programmable data protection
programmable privacy you can customize
which parts of your application logic
are fully transparent encrypted on chain
shielded and then enabled with Selective
disclosure we've seen the Fallout of
privacy networks they're not compliant
they'll never be compliant and frankly
often times they were never intended to
be we want to enable onchain compliant
regulatory friendly apps because again
that's another way that we get to mass
adoption so we're kind of running up uh
against the edge of our time uh but I
did kind of want to take a side step
maybe a a 90° turn and talk a little bit
about the multi asset ecosystem or
multi-asset tokens that midnight will be
deploying and so there will be kind of
two primary tokens and the ecosystem
night and dust maybe you could just kind
of give us like a highlevel eli5
overview of how users will be able to
interact with and use these tokens
within the midnight architecture and
ecosystem absolutely very happy to so KN
and dust KN is the unshielded publicly
publicly traded token that is involved
in governance that is involved in um the
the token that you can um purchase on
exchanges the token that you can share
with others dust is a shielded resource
that allows you to make transactions on
the network and this is important to
have separation for a number of
different reasons being able to have a
single token that manages liquidity
pricing fees gas fees and then also
operates the network putting all of that
functionality into a single token has
been found to be uniquely flawed and so
again in 2023 2024 we've looked at the
tokenomics of web 3 and understood that
having a single token for everything
doesn't work it doesn't scale well it
doesn't allow you to do things like
predictable pricing which is super
important for being able to consume
infrastructure doesn't matter which
industry you're in whether you're web 3
web 2 the ability to have predictable
pricing or not to have wild wild
variation or bottlenecks in your block
production and the cost of doing so is
not scalable it's not feasible we're
tolerating it we're risk accepting it
today but that's not technology that's
going to mass go for Mass adoption and
so being able to separate the public
token from the resource that manages the
network very very different dust is
shielded dust cannot be transferred from
one individual to another and so it
can't be seen as a privacy token as long
as you hold Knight it generates dust so
think of it like a charging mechanism as
long as you hold Knight that Knight Will
generate dust in your wallet that you
can then use to transact on the network
so essentially if you're holding night
you can transact on midnight
applications infinitely forever that's
hugely powerful you know if you have
some somebody out there in the world
who's holding night they will be able to
use an application that protects their
identity that protects their privacy
that Shields their sensitive data
forever essentially now it depends how
often you use it how much night you need
etc etc but broadly speaking that's also
a fundamental Innovation that is that's
massively needed for applications in
general for moving away from the single
token model that's hindered web 3 and
also for enabling the ability to have a
listed blockchain project with a public
token but also that is Ena to do that is
able to do shielded transactions on
chain well as we kind of wrap up and
zoom out I'm going to ask the one
question that every Builder hates to
hear but every token holder loves to ask
when main net 2025 we launched test net
on the 1st of October so 15 days ago
that's going to date the show already
sorry for that but test net just
launched um we've had really positive
response we've had people building from
a number of different ecosystems
different applications we've seen defi
gaming identity intellectual property
management media we've had some absolute
Veterans of the cardano ecosystem
building with us Sunday swap pimer Labs
sorry pimer Studios and and a number of
others that are really testing and
pushing hard the potential of zero
knowledge giving us really great ideas
for features and functionality and that
are helping us to make midnight a better
product before we get to Main net so
this is an important step in our journey
obviously the next question they're
going to ask is token we hear it we see
it every day we hear you we know we just
released the night paper which is our
light paper that explains more about the
Core Concepts of midnight understandably
yes there will be a token generating
event before mainnet and as soon as the
lawyers let us we will tell you
everything we possibly can but we hear
all the comments we read all the
comments we're very supportive of
everybody who's seen us and who's
working with midnight has taken interest
in midnight so far please continue to do
so we've got some really exciting things
lined up and we really think that the
midnight network is going to be hugely
benefit official not just for web 3 but
for the future of the internet and
applications at large so stick with us
we're doing big things between now and
then who do you want to talk to and
what's the best way they can reach out
to you I want to talk to everybody
people who are interested people who
love us people who hate us the best way
to find us midnight. Network that's the
website on there you can find the night
paper so midnight. Network white paper
you can download the night paper and
read more about midnight docs. midnight.
Network that's where you can find all of
our developer documentation and through
the website also you'll find links to
telegram for those who want to keep
updated with our news Discord for those
who want to jump in go and engage with
other developers the developer relations
team and start building and we welcome
feedback we welcome new ideas we welcome
poll requests and we welcome the haters
the more feedback we get the better the
product is going to be at the end of the
day so um thank you for giving us a
platform and thank you for giving us a
chance to share more about what we're
doing absolutely Anthony thank you so
much for taking time out of your busy
and hectic day and schedule to come and
chat with us on the smart economy
podcast it was an absolute pleasure um
and I want to appreciate uh take a
moment to appreciate the time you gave
um it means a lot thanks very much great
conversation Dylan excellent preparation
and also want to give a shout out to the
unshielded podcast please go check that
out on all the places you go and get
your podcasts from couldn't have ended
it any better than that thanks a lot
Anthony have a good one you too D thanks
aill cheers well what did you think of
that conversation I just want to thank
you so much for tuning in to the smart
economy podcast to stay in the loop with
all of our latest episodes and insights
head over to
www.smart economy podcast.com and don't
forget to subscribe to our YouTube
channel for all of our video content if
you enjoyed this discussion today please
consider showing your support by liking
commenting and reviewing this episode on
your favorite podcasting platform your
feedback really does help us reach more
listeners and continue to bring even
better content directly to your eyes and
ears also we'd love to hear from you so
drop a comment on Spotify or YouTube to
share more insights into what you would
like us to discuss on this show or who
you might like to see as our next guest
and if you think someone would make a
great guest don't hesitate to reach out
we're always looking for fresh voices
and New Perspectives and for our Neo
token holders out there please consider
voting for Neo news today as your
Council representative we've proudly
been supporting the Neo ecosystem since
2017 and will continue to do so by
putting portions of our Council rewards
directly back into ecosystem growth
initiatives thank you so much again for
taking the time to listen to the smart
economy podcast and we look forward to
catching you next time